BARACK OBAMA - DREAMS FROM MY FATHER EXCERPT

A few months after my twenty-first birthday, a stranger called to give me the news. I was living in New York at the time, on Ninety-fourth between Second and First, part of that unnamed, shifting border between East Harlem and the rest of Manhattan. It was an uninviting block, treeless and barren, lined with soot-colored walk-ups that cast heavy shadows for most of the day. The apartment was small, with slanting floors and irregular heat and a buzzer downstairs that didn't work, so that visitors had to call ahead from a pay phone at the corner gas station, where a black Doberman the size of a wolf paced through the night in vigilant patrol, its jaws clamped around an empty beer bottle.

I was working as a research assistant at the time, trying to save money for graduate school. My office was in the financial district, and every morning I would wake up at five o'clock to beat the crowd, dressing quietly in the dark while my roommate, Sadik, lay sleeping in the other bed. I would put on coffee and maybe a slice of toast, then take the elevator downstairs to meet the predawn chill. The streets were empty, the office towers dark; I could hear my footsteps echo against the pavement. At the subway station, I would wait for the first train of the day, then take it to the end of the line, where I would board another train that took me back to the center of the city. The office was on the twenty-third floor, and from my desk I could see across the East River to Brooklyn, the bridge's cables like the strings of a giant harp, the river's surface a shifting mirror of light. I would work there until evening, then reverse my route, arriving home in time to watch the late news and maybe read a book before bed.

It was a lonely time for me, a time when I was trying to find my place in the world. I had graduated from college two years before, and since then I had been working odd jobs, trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life. I had thought about law school, but the idea of spending three more years in school, then working in a law firm, seemed too conventional, too predictable. I had thought about writing, but I wasn't sure I had anything to say. I had thought about politics, but the idea of running for office seemed too grandiose, too presumptuous.

And so I had drifted, taking whatever work came my way, living in cheap apartments, reading books, listening to music, trying to understand who I was and where I came from. I had always been interested in my family's history, but I had never really explored it. My father was a mystery to me, a figure from a distant land who had left when I was two years old. I had only a few memories of him, and most of those were probably imagined. I knew that he was from Kenya, that he had studied in America, that he had returned to Africa when I was still a child. But beyond that, I knew very little.

My mother had told me stories about him, of course. She had told me about his intelligence, his charm, his ambition. She had told me about the way he could make people laugh, the way he could make them think. She had told me about his dreams for Kenya, his hopes for Africa. But these were stories, filtered through her memory and her love for him. They were not the man himself.

And so when the stranger called to tell me that my father was dead, I felt nothing. I had never really known him, and so I could not really mourn him. I thanked the caller for the information, hung up the phone, and went back to work. But later that night, as I lay in bed, I began to think about what I had lost. Not the man himself, but the possibility of knowing him, of understanding him, of learning from him. I began to think about all the questions I would never be able to ask him, all the stories I would never be able to hear from him, all the wisdom he might have been able to share with me.

And I began to think about my own identity, about who I was and where I came from. I had always thought of myself as an American, but now I began to wonder what that meant. I had always thought of myself as black, but now I began to wonder what that meant too. I had always thought of myself as the son of my mother, but now I began to wonder about my father's influence on who I was becoming.

It was then that I decided to write this book. Not as a biography of my father, but as a way of understanding myself. I wanted to explore the questions that his death had raised in my mind. I wanted to understand how his life had shaped mine, even though I had never really known him. I wanted to understand how the choices he had made, the dreams he had pursued, the failures he had experienced, had all contributed to the person I was becoming.

This book is the result of that exploration. It is not a complete story, of course. There are gaps in my knowledge, questions that remain unanswered, mysteries that may never be solved. But it is the best I can do with what I have, and I hope that it will help others who are struggling with similar questions about their own identity and their own place in the world.