SHAH RUKH KHAN TED TALK - "THOUGHTS ON HUMANITY, FAME AND LOVE"

Thank you. Thank you so much. It's wonderful to be here. It's wonderful to be anywhere, actually.

I've been a movie star for 25 years now, and I've been thinking about what I could share with you that would be meaningful. And I thought, maybe I should share with you the three lessons that I've learned about being a movie star, and maybe they apply to all of us.

The first lesson is: success is not a good teacher. Failure is a great teacher. I've been successful for 25 years, and I can tell you, success makes you stupid. It makes you think you know everything. It makes you think you can do no wrong. It makes you think you're invincible.

But failure, failure teaches you humility. Failure teaches you that you're not perfect. Failure teaches you that you need to work harder. Failure teaches you that you need to be better.

The second lesson is: love is not about finding the perfect person. It's about seeing an imperfect person perfectly. I've been married for 25 years, and I can tell you, my wife is not perfect. I'm not perfect either. But we see each other perfectly. We accept each other's flaws. We love each other despite our imperfections.

Love is not about finding someone who completes you. Love is about finding someone who accepts you completely. Love is about finding someone who loves you for who you are, not for who they want you to be.

The third lesson is: destiny is not a matter of chance. It's a matter of choice. I was not born to be a movie star. I was born in a middle-class family in Delhi. My father was a freedom fighter. My mother was a magistrate. They wanted me to be a lawyer or a doctor or an engineer.

But I chose to be an actor. I chose to follow my dreams. I chose to take risks. I chose to fail. I chose to learn from my failures. I chose to keep trying.

And that's what destiny is. Destiny is not something that happens to you. Destiny is something that you create. Destiny is something that you choose. Destiny is something that you work for.

My dear friends, I want to tell you something. I want to tell you that you are all movie stars. You are all heroes. You are all legends. You just don't know it yet.

You have the power to change the world. You have the power to make a difference. You have the power to inspire others. You have the power to love. You have the power to dream. You have the power to choose your destiny.

So go out there and be the hero of your own story. Go out there and make your dreams come true. Go out there and change the world.

Thank you. Thank you so much. God bless you all.