CHRIS PRATT INTERVIEW EXCERPT

You know, it's crazy. It's absolutely crazy. I never thought I'd be here. I never thought I'd be doing this. I never thought I'd be talking to you about being a movie star.

I was just a regular guy from Minnesota. I was just a guy who loved movies. I was just a guy who dreamed of being an actor. I was just a guy who wanted to make people laugh.

And here I am today, talking to you about being in some of the biggest movies ever made. It's insane. It's absolutely insane.

You know, when I first started acting, I was terrible. I was absolutely terrible. I couldn't act my way out of a paper bag. I was just this awkward guy who was trying to be funny, and most of the time, I wasn't.

But I kept trying. I kept working hard. I kept believing in myself. I kept dreaming big. And slowly, very slowly, I started getting better.

And then I got my big break. I got cast in Parks and Recreation, and everything changed. Suddenly, people were laughing at my jokes. Suddenly, people were recognizing me on the street. Suddenly, I was a real actor.

It was amazing. It was absolutely amazing. I couldn't believe it. I still can't believe it sometimes.

And then things just kept getting better. I got cast in Guardians of the Galaxy, and that was a whole different level. That was a Marvel movie. That was a superhero movie. That was the big leagues.

I was playing Star-Lord, this intergalactic outlaw who's kind of a jerk but also kind of lovable. And I was working with these amazing actors and this amazing director, and it was just incredible.

The movie came out, and people loved it. People loved my character. People loved the movie. It was a huge hit. It was absolutely huge.

And then I got cast in Jurassic World, and that was even bigger. That was a Jurassic Park movie. That was one of the most beloved franchises in movie history. And I was going to be the lead.

I was terrified. I was absolutely terrified. I was like, "What if I mess this up? What if I ruin Jurassic Park? What if people hate me?"

But I worked really hard. I trained really hard. I prepared really hard. And when the movie came out, people loved it. People loved my character. People loved the movie. It was another huge hit.

And then I got cast in The Lego Movie, and that was just pure fun. I was playing this little Lego guy who thinks he's the most important person in the world, and it was just hilarious. I had so much fun doing that movie.

And then I got cast in Passengers, and that was a whole different kind of movie. That was a romantic sci-fi movie. That was a serious movie. That was me trying to show that I could do more than just comedy.

And people liked it. People liked my performance. People liked the movie. It wasn't a huge hit, but it was well-received, and that meant a lot to me.

You know, the thing about being an actor is that you never know what's going to happen. You never know which movie is going to be a hit. You never know which performance is going to be well-received. You just have to keep working hard and keep believing in yourself.

And that's what I've done. I've kept working hard. I've kept believing in myself. I've kept dreaming big. And it's worked out pretty well so far.

But you know what? I'm still just a regular guy. I'm still just a guy from Minnesota. I'm still just a guy who loves movies. I'm still just a guy who wants to make people laugh.

I haven't changed. I'm still the same person I was when I started. I'm still humble. I'm still grateful. I'm still amazed by everything that's happened to me.

I'm just a regular guy who got really lucky. That's it. That's my story. That's my journey. I'm just a regular guy who got really lucky, and I'm not afraid to admit it.

You know, people ask me all the time, "What's your secret? How did you make it? What's your advice for aspiring actors?"

And my answer is always the same: work hard, believe in yourself, and never give up. That's it. That's my secret. That's my advice.

Work hard. Believe in yourself. Never give up. And maybe, just maybe, you'll get lucky too.

Because that's what happened to me. I worked hard. I believed in myself. I never gave up. And I got lucky. Really lucky.

And I'm grateful for that luck. I'm grateful for every opportunity I've had. I'm grateful for every person who's helped me along the way. I'm grateful for every fan who's supported me.

I'm just a regular guy who got really lucky, and I'm not going to forget that. I'm not going to take it for granted. I'm not going to act like I'm better than anyone else.

Because I'm not. I'm just a regular guy who got really lucky. That's it. That's my story. That's my journey. That's who I am.

And I'm proud of that. I'm proud of my story. I'm proud of my journey. I'm proud of who I am.

I'm Chris Pratt, and I'm just a regular guy who got really lucky. And I'm not afraid to admit it.